so this
is a computer
and not a weird low spec one or
something that was designed and built
from the ground up to bring linux to the
folks who can't be bothered to compile
their own kernel hunt down all the right
repos or even build their own pc
it challenges so many of my own
assumptions about the linux community
like for starters
wouldn't anyone with the time and
inclination to tinker around with linux
also have the time and inclination to
install it for themselves in the first
place
so it seems like the goal here is to
make linux more accessible to normies
so
let's go through this together and i
want to see your comments down below
about what they got right
and what they got wrong
moss has updated their packs once again
and in version four they've got a ton of
changes making it a combination between
their grande and their black pack buy it
today at the link in the video
description
[Music]
starting with the system 76 web store
the goal was clearly to simplify the
shopping experience they offer both amd
and intel platforms with a huge amount
of customization but they boil their
thelio system offerings down to three
models a good better best if you will
with the system upgrades presented in a
way that
is simple but might actually bother many
hardware enthusiasts for example the
matte pro 27-inch ips display has no
model number listed whatsoever and this
30 terabyte hard drive is just
six five terabyte hard drives with no
indication as to how they're going to be
configured prior to shipping now we're
going to talk about our hardware config
in a little bit but first as a non-linux
user i want to poke around pop os a
little bit when you first boot it is
super easy to encrypt your data just
enter a password and reboot that is
pretty neat then when you come back
you're given the opportunity to set up
your online accounts for integration
into the os including access to your
google drive cloud storage right in the
file manager now we've actually seen pop
os before in our gaming on linux update
video
and one of its major departures from its
parent ubuntu
is popshop a ridiculously easy to use
app store so it's actually ported over
from elementary os but with one key
value add system 76 curates their own
packages so if you ever need something
basic like steam for gaming or the
latest nvidia drivers it's just a click
away actually for your graphics drivers
it's easier than updating them on
windows
the only real criticisms that we had
were the lack of ui scaling by default
on our 27 inch 4k display and the way
that our secondary storage drive one
that shipped in our system was kind of
hidden away we think this should be
front and center like the cloud storage
is so hopefully they fix that soon as
for if you need to fix anything you can
access the popos recovery environment
that lives on the boot drive by holding
down space or escape during boot this is
a full copy of the installation media
meaning that you get a live environment
to access and back up your files refresh
your installation or even just nuke it
and start over from scratch and this is
all without needing a thumb drive now
one fun idea is that you could actually
use this recovery environment as a sort
of
super incognito mode that's separate
from your main install if you were so
inclined now on to the hardware
our thelio is specked out with a ryzen 7
2700x and a bunch of other good stuff so
we threw both gaming and productivity
workloads at it where it not only
performed pretty well overall but in
some cases outperformed windows and this
is on literally exactly the same
hardware now obviously our gaming
results fell a little behind in some
places but what's noteworthy here is
that we're even running these games
if you're not up on the latest in linux
gaming news i don't blame you but valve
proton enables a huge number of windows
only games even ones that aren't on
steam to run on linux now it is super
cool onto productivity
now right now for some workloads like
video editing linux isn't a great time
because the industry standard tools
aren't available on the platform but for
other things like color work and davinci
resolve our system performed really well
and in some cases absolutely crushed our
windows performance numbers like check
out these blender results if you if i
didn't see it happen i wouldn't believe
that they're on the same processor
okay then
so so far we've got good performance a
relatively simple linux software
implementation
green light to buy then
well
hold on a second now we intended for
this to be a review of the system but so
far everything we've shown you can be
installed on commodity hardware that you
assemble for yourself so let's take a
closer look at the box once you get it
out of the shockingly nerdy packaging
the most striking features of the thelio
are its wood grain finish and its
tantalizing silver power button and
accompanying white led ring there's no
sign of any front io to disrupt the
clean design language they've gone with
which means it's beautiful but also
means unfortunately that we're stuck
with what we've got on the rear and
back here is interesting so more of that
clean at any cost approach the i o is
cut directly out of the chassis
that means no simple motherboard upgrade
although again it does make for an
uninterrupted premium look that really
screams apple even though when we pop
the hood with these thumb screws we can
see that this is clearly a standard pc
motherboard on the inside what we can
also see in here is they've done a
pretty bang-up job with the cable
management helped significantly by the
generous real estate provided under the
main fascia which doesn't attempt to
seal the computer so much as it
conceals that means that there is a bit
of concern from our end about dust
accumulation through the side panels and
the potential for noise to sneak out
from under the chassis using the air gap
as an echo chamber unfortunately sure
enough it does get a little loud when
the fans are running full tilt and it's
not just
whooshing air noise something that we
generally don't complain about
rather it's a kind of droning wine
that's a little bit harder to tune out
honestly i think a noctua or a be quiet
fan swap would help tremendously here
because it seems to be that the arctic
freezer 12 cpu cooler is making most of
the racket
and that might also help with thermals
our ryzen 7 2700x stayed cool enough to
prevent throttling but at 85 degrees
under full synthetic load i would prefer
something a little beefier as for our
evga graphics card well that was right
where we wanted it in spite of the
diminutive size of our chassis
despite its acoustic shortcomings though
the interior of the thelio does carry
the same level of polish and attention
to detail as the exterior so the cpu
cooler shroud is both stylish and
practical pulling double duty as a guide
for the cpu cooler's exhaust and as a
bracket for mounting a chassis fan and
similarly the gpu's retention bracket
acts as a brace to protect board flex
check this out too up top we've got this
row of screws
weird right
well they're here for a reason this hot
swap drive bay allows you to just push
out this clip slide however many screws
you need down the rail and then screw
them into the drive line up plug in and
it couldn't be simpler and you don't
even need to worry about losing the box
of case screws that was included with
your system
the only issue here is that you better
forget about mounting a full size three
and a half inch drive two and a half
inch ssds and hard drives only
also we haven't gotten to the coolest
thing about this yet the case and all of
its accompanying bits and pieces open
source just like the operating system so
there's literally a github page with the
cad files for everything that you see
here and for its bigger brothers the
thelio major and thelio massive
now that's not to say that every
component in the system is open source
the motherboard cpu ram video card
storage devices and power supply are all
proprietary in design with the ip owned
by the individual companies that made
them
but system 76 says that they're
developing their own firmwares wherever
they can in order to make the hardware
as open as possible something that
they've already done with their laptops
which are otherwise just standard clevo
designs this openness comes at a cost
though arthelio starts at eleven hundred
dollars which sounds reasonable but
that's a really basic config the spec we
ended up with costs quite a bit more and
with the standard warranty we came to
just shy of twenty four hundred dollars
when we compared that to specking out
the exact same system components for
ourselves minus the case our total came
to one thousand dollars less
woof
so then case aside what are you getting
for that thousand dollar difference
well
while the operating system itself may be
free system 76 does have paid staff that
actively develop their os and that's to
say nothing of the user support
commitments that come along with that
perhaps most crucially though the thelio
chassis manufacturer and final assembly
are both done in colorado by a team
that's about our size so no mass
production
system 76 says they want to improve this
situation in the future but for now it
means that the costs add up really
quickly
so to sum it up you're paying for the
case u.s manufacture operating system
development and support from a small
team of enthusiasts
now whether the design and concept of a
well-integrated linux desktop is enough
to make you pay the extra that's a
choice i'll leave to you
but overall we think it's really cool
and a huge step in the right direction
big thanks to dollar shave club for
sponsoring this video dollar shave club
has you covered for all your shaving and
other bathroom needs they've got more
than just razors guys they've got stuff
for your shower stuff for your mouth
stuff for your hair and even skin
products if you have a body
you need dollar shave club check out
their hydrating starter set it includes
their executive handle four cartridges
one ounce of their dr carver's shave
butter a one ounce bottle of their mint
and cedar face and body wash and a one
ounce bottle of sage and black pepper
shampoo and conditioner jono and the
business team in particular loves the
shave butter since it makes the blade
glide effortlessly over your skin and
gives you a nice clean comfortable shave
they ship all their products right to
your door and if you buy more you can
save more so try it out today with their
starter set for just five dollars at
dollarshaveclub.com
linus we're gonna have that linked below
so thanks for watching guys if you
dislike this video you know where that
button is but if you liked it hit like
get subscribed or maybe consider
checking out where to buy the stuff we
featured at the link below also down
there is our merch store which has cool
shirts like this one and our community
forum which you should totally join